Shaun wilkins: Hey mom.
Shaun wilkins: Hey what's up well.
Shaun wilkins: Hold on, hold on, window. Chris, get some coffee.
Shaun wilkins: MY NIECE'S
Gwenevere Abriel: To have somewhere that you could talk privately.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, I'm right here in
Shaun wilkins: The kitchen. It's over there.
Gwenevere Abriel: All way for you to turn your video on
Shaun wilkins: Or it's off.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: To meet with your PR later on in the day, you said you were going to swing back at 130
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, to go get a new ankle bracelet. They had to put another one on me. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: How long's that gonna be on there.
Shaun wilkins: Six months.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Um, do you want to talk a little bit about your concerns because you look like what I would describe as a big reaction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, you want to talk a little bit about what that what you were interpreting as I thought I was doing exactly what you want.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah.
Shaun wilkins: And I just, I just kind of thought. I thought you were trying to like
Shaun wilkins: Like evolve yourself my life all crazy with my PO like like I thought like if he asked her son when he asked for something. I'll tell you, you know, I mean that's that's what I did like offering him nothing okay
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, and
Gwenevere Abriel: And I thought you were literally telling me he had already asked for mental health assessment. I thought
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, yeah. No, but I was talking about the monthly the monthly things. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yes. So it is so we'll discuss that typically and I'll stay up front. I won't send anything unless you tell me too bad. I'm going to say many times
Shaun wilkins: I'm sorry, I was just tripping man I was really just, I just started tripping out that day because it's hard for me to trust people are really when you today, for some reason, red flags are popping up like what's going on here. Like, I don't know.
Shaun wilkins: You got scared. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I saw that and it's easy for me because I don't have anything to hide. I thought it was advocating for you and didn't feel like that. So, full stop on that. No problem.
Shaun wilkins: You'll know
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: When you do want it sent and again I didn't write it. So there's also that like I didn't write your bio psychosocial someone else did. And it could mean that what your PL wants is a psychological evaluation or something, I don't know, but you'll tell me. So we'll just kind of step up.
Shaun wilkins: And I said, he said just a mental health assessment. Yeah.
Shaun wilkins: Well, it's not my deal it's it's all my paperwork. So he asked me to read my paperwork and whatever's on there. It said that. See, and he just told me last year counselor. They can do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. So we've been here before. And I gave you a we have it and I'm about to send it, and you did a full stop. So again, I'm waiting to hear one of your please send it to my PL otherwise I'm doing nothing.
Shaun wilkins: That's cool. My bad. I didn't mean to flip out on I just
Shaun wilkins: I just kind of started just, I don't know. It's hard for me to trust people like you that he talks, because I'm high profile and he was telling me yesterday that that uh, like when anything happens with me his bosses and everybody gets involved. You know what I mean. So I
Shaun wilkins: Just, I don't, I'm not trying to get in trouble for nothing like even something that's not there. Like I never know. You know, if I'm going to get trouble for something. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, well, we can do a little and I get that because you've really been hurt in the past.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it might mean it wouldn't be uncommon for someone to be a little hyper vigilant, like maybe see threat that may not be there. So in general, what I can do is I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Excuse me, I can go over. Basically what the bio psychosocial looks like.
Gwenevere Abriel: A typically a clinician doesn't send it to a client. And let me tell you why.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because this is clinical information. This is a clinical impression and if if a clinician isn't sitting with the client to go over every little bit of it, what ends up happening or the possibility
Gwenevere Abriel: Of a client misinterpreting it right just even are this exchange got like kind of misinterpreted, in a way. So you can see that the risk is high, it is bad practice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your document to be sent directly to a client, unless you're sitting there with them and you can walk them through it and say this is what this means, this is what this means. And again, I'm not the one that wrote it. So it's even more difficult because I'm not the one that wrote it.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, oh yeah, no, I think I'm hyper vigilant be good because I got PTSD of hyper vigilant with everything. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I
Gwenevere Abriel: Work with y'all all day long and I get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll be super careful as much as I possibly can. But I don't know if you remember that, I promise. I'm like, and I can tell us
Shaun wilkins: All
Gwenevere Abriel: At one point or another. I'm going to let you down. I will mean to because I'm human, and I'll seem threatening and scary. Even though my intentions might be beneficence good
Gwenevere Abriel: Still it's scary to interact with another human they they heard us they they they do things that that are selfish at times. And so as long as you and I can talk, I think we'll be okay.
Shaun wilkins: That's why I stay away from people. That's why I go to work, come home. I don't associate with nobody I just
Shaun wilkins: You know, maybe I just try to stay away from. Anyway, I too.
Gwenevere Abriel: And maybe that's where we'll start today is I'd like to give you this is really neat little inventory that assesses, a lot of the symptoms of post traumatic stress disorder and we can start there and take a look at some pieces of that. Are you open to it.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, I'm doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's what we'll do. Cool, cool, cool.
All right.
track it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'll probably do is I can share the screen with you know how I've been able to share my screen. And we can
Shaun wilkins: Go.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can go over each one. We can do it that way. Well, how are you feeling today, even as you're talking with me. Now, let me just do a little check in. How are you feeling
Shaun wilkins: Good. All right. I just got up, I worked all night and I just woke up trying to get the first cup of coffee me
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, I gotta have that coffee, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, let's see. All right. What did I call this since I can
Gwenevere Abriel: Get sitting somewhere else. I gotta track it down. I didn't know we were going to do that today. So I apologize.
Shaun wilkins: Last night I got this. I got this taxi, I take this taxi, then it. I'm going to they picked me up dropped me off every day. And then last night. Oh no, it's 3918 so it's 3901 I was pissed. They're all wasn't your manifesto. No, it's not. I got the email right here it says 91
Shaun wilkins: One thing just get picked up last night.
Gwenevere Abriel: So over 17 cents.
Shaun wilkins: Know, to get picked up for a ride. It was no it's $18 but they're going to the wrong address and they've been peeking have dropped me off for a week. Already, and I'll
Shaun wilkins: Be off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun wilkins: We're gonna be in by midnight. If I'm not eating my dinner I get violated because I'm on the ankle recently, you know, and do
Some wonder word
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you've got a lot at stake. It's not like a regular pickup and drop off not like a lot at stake.
Shaun wilkins: And there's some weirdo drivers man someones drivers are weird, man. One guy. I could have swore like I was on this man I'll like
Gwenevere Abriel: I said he could have been
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, he probably was. It was weird. He looked like. Remember that guy that comedian used to Smashing Pumpkins are watermelons, and
Gwenevere Abriel: Eleanor, I think it was
Shaun wilkins: Gallagher. Yeah. Yes, here like that dude was gold green driven up, we're
Going to find this puppy.
Feel free to keep drinking your coffee.
Shaun wilkins: Already fighting
Here.
Shaun wilkins: Where's your office is your house.
Shaun wilkins: Nice office.
Shaun wilkins: Looks like a real like a real office.
Shaun wilkins: That's crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry, I'm distracted. I'm trying to accomplish this, and it's taking some some extra tasks here. So I've got a pull it from somewhere. So he took it from there. If I send it to myself.
Message.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's gonna be like hearts scale.
Get you to look at it.
Up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Taste.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we'll do this one together. This is kind of a nice place to kind of get a reference of how your symptoms are presenting these days. Okay.
The
Gwenevere Abriel: It's on a lifeguard scale it logs off number four which is extremely
Gwenevere Abriel: How do I get the share. Here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'll read the instruction to you. It's basically Below is a list of problems that people sometimes have in response to very stressful experiences. And that's a
Gwenevere Abriel: nice way of saying a traumatic experience.
Gwenevere Abriel: So please read. Read each problem carefully and then circle. One of the numbers to the right to indicate how much you have been bothered.
Gwenevere Abriel: By that problem and past 30 days. So it gives us a sense of what what it's been like for you. The last 30 days, but over on the right is it is number four.
Shaun wilkins: Is extremely
Gwenevere Abriel: For a lot of people. It's extremely
Shaun wilkins: Yeah.
Shaun wilkins: So can we do
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so look at it just from this word I'm bothered I'm bothered by, you know, it'll be one through 20 I'm bothered by it, not at all a little bit moderately quite a bit are extremely so let's
Shaun wilkins: Do the first two or four
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one, repeated disturbing and unwanted memories of a stressful. That's number that's a four. Yeah. Extremely and number two, I don't
Know,
Shaun wilkins: That stuff pops in my head every day because I don't understand how it does because I like a song or something. I'll hear a song and I was locked up with as I was going through that stuff when that song came out. Yeah, I don't know, just weird stuff like that. I can explain it.
Gwenevere Abriel: triggers a memory yeah psychology and neuroscience offer some pretty useful explanation about why that might be happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go a little slower so that I can know this information to so repeated discerning dreams of a stressful experience you're putting a four which is extremely bothering
Gwenevere Abriel: It bothers you, to the degree of extremely number three. Suddenly feeling or acting as if the stressful experience for actually happening again.
Shaun wilkins: See, I guess that's what I started panicking on like you are people thinking that somebody trying to hit me up.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK.
Shaun wilkins: And now, I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's a 4.33 okay
Shaun wilkins: Because that's why I started trippin on people.
Shaun wilkins: Tripping okay good everybody's everybody's hurting everybody's against me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay so let's keep going. These are pretty useful places for us to explore in the future. So let's take a look at number four.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now remember this is a register your own register of how much it bothers you, how bothered. Are you feeling very upset when something from mine did you have the stressful experience.
Shaun wilkins: Three quite a bit. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we have five having strong physical reactions when something reminded you of the stressful event. So that's a physiological a somatic response that's the heart pounding sweating. Sometimes our jaw gets clenched
Gwenevere Abriel: Our, our can't even hear sort of that blood in our ears. We start you know we can feel it physically
Shaun wilkins: Your heart starts pounding and you lose your breath. That's because your heart's pounding.
Gwenevere Abriel: How distressing from zero to four.
Gwenevere Abriel: Last 30 days, which is like how to stress.
Shaun wilkins: For years prior to two, okay, because it's a boxing keeps me more calm. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Number six, avoiding memories, thoughts or feelings related to the stressful experience.
Shaun wilkins: You know, you try to avoid them. But you can't because they just pop in your head. I've tried to avoid those things by the pop in the just the. I can explain. They just just boom. Yeah, I mean, you can you can avoid it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if this is this is a really this is a watch the phrasing of this what this inventory is asking you to do is to look at how bother. Have you been by you're avoiding memories, thoughts or feelings related to the stressful experience do you assess it is extremely a bother some three
Gwenevere Abriel: Quite a bit to moderately
Shaun wilkins: One thoughts or feelings. I don't know if I can if I can avoid oh
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, unfortunately, it doesn't take yes I avoid or not. See if you can find
Gwenevere Abriel: A bothered you are was your first response when you saw that
Shaun wilkins: The first one, that's what I was thinking I could, I don't know, I can't answer that because I did you can avoid them. They just
Shaun wilkins: Pop in your head.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think I got it. How bothered. Are you by the fact that you can avoid them.
Shaun wilkins: I'm pretty water quite a bit. Three. Three.
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go. We found it. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we got one for six. Let's see what happens with number seven. Same kind of thing. It's really registering your assessment of how troubling. It is for you, avoiding external reminders of a stressful experience. For example, people places conversations activities objects, objects or situations.
Shaun wilkins: To three
Shaun wilkins: Anyway, great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and then we got a great so trouble remembering important parts of the stressful experience like maybe you wanted to remember an important piece of it.
Shaun wilkins: 00
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right.
Shaun wilkins: almost lost my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number nine. How strong or having strong negative beliefs about yourself or other people or the world, for example.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, sorry, having strong negative beliefs about yourself or other people in the world. For example, having thoughts, such as I'm bad, there's something seriously wrong with me. No one can be trusted. The world is ok that. There we go. There's that sort of what you were calling triple thing.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, awesome for
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, gotcha number 10
Gwenevere Abriel: How bothered. Have you been the last 30 days where you're blaming yourself or someone else for the stressful experience of what happened or for what happened after it.
Shaun wilkins: For four. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number 11 having strong negative feelings, such as fear horror anger guilt or shame.
For
Shaun wilkins: All right. Number 12
Gwenevere Abriel: Loss of interest in activities you used to enjoy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, curious about that one.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, pray. Three. Three. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to know about those activities definitely want to understand that. So then we got 13 feeling distant or cut off from other
Gwenevere Abriel: Four.
Gwenevere Abriel: 414
Gwenevere Abriel: Trouble experiencing positive feelings. For example, being unable to feel happiness or have loving feelings for people close to you.
Shaun wilkins: Know zero
Gwenevere Abriel: That doesn't bother you.
Shaun wilkins: Know I love my family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, got it. Okay, number 15
Gwenevere Abriel: Bothered by a sense of irritable behavior angry outbursts for acting
Shaun wilkins: Is Lee.
Oh,
Shaun wilkins: Oh,
What do you got 333. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: taking too many risks doing things that could cause you harm.
Shaun wilkins: Sure. Right now I'm trying not to do that. So zero
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you you're not bothered by the last 30 days. It's been a zero.
Shaun wilkins: I think I've been a risk taker, my whole life.
Shaun wilkins: They were seeing on my trial that I've had PTSD, since I was a kid, because they were trying to see that they get that I got it for what happened to me. But they're saying, Oh, I've had it since I was a little kid.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe this is an interesting one because if our right because you. It's so normalized from for you what you just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just look at the last 30
Shaun wilkins: Days.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you end up doing something. So I know you had a sexual encounter with someone was, would that constitute one of those, like, whoa, maybe
Shaun wilkins: Would that be one.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, just got kind of crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing things that could cause you harm you ended up being harmed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Without a risk, maybe, I don't know.
Shaun wilkins: That, you know, I guess it was risky behavior because I didn't use protection. Right. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, because you don't know her right
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, I know. I've known her for like 20 years
Shaun wilkins: Well, we don't know what she's been doing. Yeah, it's right. Not good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so now go inside and assess yourself what you believe about yourself how bother you are buyer behavior. It was at zero. Should I keep it zero, or are you bothered by your behavior, putting
Yourself.
Shaun wilkins: To. Okay, let's move to 17
Here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Being
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Shaun wilkins: Well, for
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's the one.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then at
Shaun wilkins: Various for
jumpy.
Shaun wilkins: Loud noises irritated me so bad, man. I did also flip it out. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a strong symptom.
Shaun wilkins: Of the traumatic disorder symptoms. Yep. That's a big one. And then we have
Gwenevere Abriel: 19 having difficulty concentrating. So when you want to really focus. Does it seem like your mind wants to
put you under
Shaun wilkins: Water. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Three. Three. Got it. Last one trouble falling or staying asleep.
Shaun wilkins: By two, two. Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, yeah. The symptoms are high.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You got it.
Shaun wilkins: You know what, I don't, I don't like I don't think they understand like what I've been through so I don't think they understand really like how
Shaun wilkins: Because, uh, I think my symptoms are pretty bad, because I think we just I sat in a cell for years as solitary confinement. I did three years and too much street solitary confinement.
Shaun wilkins: And I think it really messed me up.
Shaun wilkins: People are
Gwenevere Abriel: Saying insane.
Shaun wilkins: I think I did a couple times because I used to talk to myself in the mirror didn't get my losing my mind, this
Shaun wilkins: And then I was fighting for my life. And then people would be banging on my walls, call me a baby killer and
Shaun wilkins: Stuff out have everybody seeing, they're gonna kill me like every inmate guards were telling me that I'm going to be killed.
Shaun wilkins: You don't. I mean, it was, it was innocent. I was telling her about me innocent way, believe me, it was a watch. No one believed me so I was all over the news.
Shaun wilkins: And then I got out everybody was like kind of like what the hell you know i'm saying is I was telling her about Venus. It has nothing to do with this, and no one and then this guy three years into it comes forward admit that he lied that he set us up.
Shaun wilkins: Then everything started changing from them and then they found out that he was even involved that he falsely confessed that they over. Do they overturned his case yeah 134 years they overturned his case, he got out. Yeah. I mean, he ended up getting on to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why would he admit to something like that.
Shaun wilkins: Oh, he admitted a four counts of murder and then set us up because these cops cops stinks. I shot up his house.
Shaun wilkins: And that means this gear that case things I shot up his house. Someone told him I shot of his house and he tried to see in the newspapers that I told him I did it. That's a lie. It would have charged me
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's talk a little bit about the course of treatment because right now we have now settled in enough that we can start to look at some of the interventions that have some statistical efficacy with symptoms of PTSD. Can we talk a little bit about that. Yeah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there are some treatments out there. Thank goodness that have a positive impact for people and what you just told me earlier is that you have two things you have what sounds like complex trauma, which means you may have had some challenges when you were growing up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which you haven't told me those stories yet. But you just said, I think I had it when I was young.
Shaun wilkins: Psychology sourcing
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that says to me that when you start to tell me what if you decide that I'm trustworthy. When you do tell me those stories. If you find me trustworthy.
Gwenevere Abriel: My guess is there will be missed attunement from a primary caregiver. There may have been sense of you're not feeling safe as a little person there's going to be probably some stories in there were there were, you were, you were hurt and
Gwenevere Abriel: And what can happen with that Sean is when we're hurt our development, our brain literally doesn't grow on time. It doesn't grow the same way as it. What if we had a safe nurturing environment.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's all. And so we say, okay, and guess what the good news is our brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: grows, it changes and because we know this. Now you can heal.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's exciting.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's number one. Number two, so I just talked about complex developmental trauma never want to talk about what's called like a shock trauma.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're in a car accident or that you're going to jail right that that horror experience that's a shock event. So you have both. You lucky guy I say sarcastically
Obviously,
Gwenevere Abriel: But, but you're not alone. Okay, the people that I'm working with have gone through really some shit. Okay. Oh, just number one, you're not alone. This is, this is
Gwenevere Abriel: A space. A lot of people are going through this and I want to talk to you about some of the treatments that have been shown to be effective.
Gwenevere Abriel: What tends to be effective and this may seem really kooky but it's actually what a big piece of whether the the technical work. Let's say we decided to do some em Dr together that's that's a specific intervention.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what's interesting is, whether you and I trust each other and that may blow your mind. But the fact that you and I may develop rapport.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you get to look at another human being and really learn maybe for one of the first times I can be vulnerable.
Gwenevere Abriel: And look at me, I'm handling it. I'm okay, trusting another human being, believe it or not, it may seem wild, but what research will show is yes em dr is great for reprocessing trauma.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if it's a crappy relationship and these you got, you know, if the therapeutic alliance isn't there, it's not going to be as effective. Isn't that amazing
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Watch this. If the rupture. If the damage was in a relationship, let's say, a primary caregiver sort of failed us, all of us me failed me in some way, the healing, ironically,
Relationship.
Gwenevere Abriel: So people say, well, you know, what's the deal with a counselor, I can do this. I got friends i got i can i don't need I what do I need a therapist for this is stupid. This a waste of my time. But what science talks about
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the importance of attachment and then a lot of our wounding happens from an attachment wound. When we were younger. So ironically
Shaun wilkins: It's going to be in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you may experience some healing. I don't know how long that's going to take
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's an important piece of it. So when you decide, oh my gosh, you know, hey, I'm my dad, I kind of went a little. I was a little hot there with that text. Sorry about that, that, that contributes to our relationship here and it's an important part. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So have you ever done any em, Dr. Have you ever worked with anyone working through either one of the traumas.
Shaun wilkins: I've never gotten help since I've been on. I've never see talks I stayed out for 10 years and that I picked up disarm Aubrey
Shaun wilkins: And I went back to them, for I was in there for 11 years. So I've never, I was just selling the streets running doing math right around. So in math, math, and I never got help not once I never went to counseling and they're lucky.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, um,
Shaun wilkins: I never got help inside there. I never went to
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a shame it truly is.
Shaun wilkins: Nobody there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And, you know, sometimes I hear people say that that there'll be someone in in one of these AA meetings or something that they connected with other people say what you say like there was nothing nothing positive about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me tell you a little bit about my approach so
Gwenevere Abriel: I would say a lot of it is cognitive, behavioral, and you'll know cognitive behavioral because I'll be asking you, things like, what are your beliefs about yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what are your thoughts. And did you know that they cause feelings and we would stay there for a little bit. But what I've seen with trauma is we can only get so far you can only get so far because some of our wounds are stored pre verbal
Gwenevere Abriel: And how do we use words to heal when some of this is just stored in our body. So you're going to see me doing some things that seemed kind of kooky and and believe me. People are like, really, this stuff is so weird. I just can't do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But because you trust me, you end up doing it anyway. And you feel better. So I believe in. LAUGHTER I believe in you can make fun of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can always throw me under the bus and say, oh, this kooky therapist is having me do this so that's that's getting into the somatic transformation stuff where I might ask you this, I might say, much like what I did earlier, I might say, Sean.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know where you're feeling anxious right now in your body. So you know how you're kind of moving around a lot, you're kind of like kind of your, your emotion, your kind of rata tap, tap, and kind of get that done. You're moving around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you see, I can only see your shoulders up. Now, if you were here in my office I would be able to see all of you, and I'd be able to bring out each little piece and say what's going on with this part of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'm relying on you telling me and narrating and telling me what's going on. So there's a lot of a lot of reliance on you're telling me that I might say,
Gwenevere Abriel: I might say, How's your gut. Let's do a body scan. How's your gut feeling. How's your chest.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now how's your head how your arms, I might ask you at times to do some exercises that are what's called grounding or emotional regulation exercises.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and they're going to be different because you haven't done this stuff before and and I'm fine. If you want to laugh because most people are like, this is just cookie.
Shaun wilkins: Well, I've done yoga and all that stuff, everybody was laughing
Gwenevere Abriel: Good, good, good. See you okay right so it'll be kind of like that I might also explore what's
Gwenevere Abriel: Coming from a little bit of a psycho analysis perspective, which is the transactional analysis is getting into the inner child the adult in the parent
Gwenevere Abriel: Ego states inside of us that might be that. And the last one is the eye movement desensitization work, which is the EMT or and that's the stuff where you might be looking at either my finger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Moving from the left and right hemisphere, or I might show you if you weren't on a phone if you were on an actual laptop, you might be looking at a light moving left and right.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm happy to always I can stop and I can do psycho education. But what I've learned over the years is that insight.
Gwenevere Abriel: can only get you so far you can know why something you can know the neurobiology, I can talk to you about the poly bagel system. I can talk to you about the Vegas nerve and I can educate you until you know more than I do, and you can still be hurting
Gwenevere Abriel: It isn't inside alone. I wish it was, and then Freud psychoanalysis would have been all we ever needed
Shaun wilkins: You know what I read, I read this little book out this little book and was on antisocial personality disorder. And this guy read it in there. It said some about borderline. And this guy myself I was led to this guy for three years and he's all this is
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on. You just got muted say that you're selling. He said he's borderline or he said you
Shaun wilkins: Know, he said. He said, your board. He's all this is you right here. And then so we read it.
Shaun wilkins: I started laughing I was, Oh, well, let's see if you're right. So I had three psychological exams from three different doctors and it said that I was Antisocial Personality disorders and it said borderline
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, that was weird that he said, look, this is you, because he's lived with me for three years, but it says in there that I have a it's the talks about like where pieces of shit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is. That's what it said like the world what is
Shaun wilkins: It. Oh, hold on, hold on, it does, does the symptoms of what it says that the way we are. It says you're a
Shaun wilkins: Piece of shit. And I was like, wow, I was I dizzy that they're saying I have this
Shaun wilkins: Know that
Gwenevere Abriel: Listen, listen.
Gwenevere Abriel: All of that what you said is useful, except the label PIECES. PIECES should has nowhere to go pieces. It says forever. You are That.
Gwenevere Abriel: Piece of shit gets to shame and I don't know if you've picked up on that about me not interested in shame. Let me tell you what I know about antisocial personality disorder and about Borderline Personality Disorder. Those are heavy hitters no doubt they fill the jail system.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, it says I have those
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well,
Gwenevere Abriel: What you're what you did. Did you read about the ED.
Shaun wilkins: It says that we lack the ability to love.
Shaun wilkins: It says that we are
Shaun wilkins: Like it talked bad. I was like, are you kidding me. I was like, it said it like we can't even it said, Whoa. Come on, superficial charm will will appear intelligent but we're not
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't say you're not so
Gwenevere Abriel: The key piece. So for for anti personality. We're not going to call you a ship. I won't do that. I will call you yet. But let's just do that, you know, the
Gwenevere Abriel: One of the pieces and I hope you can hear, I don't agree with that summary, I do believe
Gwenevere Abriel: People can rework different parts of their brain. Okay, I don't think it's a period at the end of that diagnosis. It is a point of departure. And I think you can cultivate change if you want it. The key feature feature with that label antisocial personality disorder is this
Gwenevere Abriel: This is how you know
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll use an example, let's say you were in group.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you saw someone
Gwenevere Abriel: And for a moment. This is what empty looks like you go outside of yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you feel their pain for just a split second. Oh man, that would be so hard to have been sexually abused watch because that might be in a group, right. And then guess what you come back to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you'd go to be saying yourself. Oh, that's not me, but didn't happen to me. But for a second. This is empathy. I went outside
Gwenevere Abriel: And I had compassion for what it would feel like to be another human being, traveling along this journey to have hurted like that and watch. Then I come back to me. I know it didn't happen to me but I come back to me and you know what I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is I speak gently and I'm kind to that person. Because I imagine what it would be like to have been that hurt. Now watch what anti social, watch this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's the difference
Shaun wilkins: To see you want me to you what I think when when I hear somebody that's that sexually assaulted, I think, are they lying.
Shaun wilkins: Oh, is he doing good. I don't know. I don't, I can't go feel for someone else. It's weird. I can't
Shaun wilkins: Feel like I'm like why am I supposed to feel this pain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'll tell you. So it could be, it could be. Listen, we're not going to go with piece of shit dirt bag thing. What we're going to go with is
Gwenevere Abriel: This capacity for empathy. It is a brain function for whether the etiology was environmental or whether it's just something that you were born with, I don't know, like I just met you. Who knows. We'll find out.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the PERT let's go with my little story. Okay.
Shaun wilkins: And thank you for sure. Go for
Gwenevere Abriel: It. No, no, it's okay. I'm the person. Let's say that what's going on is an anti social peace, what might happen is they see this person and they store it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And they say,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to say something nice, but I don't feel like I care and I might use it to exploit the vulnerability of that person.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That would be exploitation, that would be that's that.
Shaun wilkins: Funnel making fun
Shaun wilkins: Of them and stuff like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, if you're really intelligent, you don't do that in a group, because what's the
Shaun wilkins: Therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: To do. Right. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Therapist is going to cut you off. And I'm going to protect this person because I have to have
Shaun wilkins: Good. I don't think no one would jump out in a green tea.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. But that's why you're not going to do that. But you might store it or one might store it and exploit. I say, oh, this person.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is vulnerable and I could use this to exploit. So watch that's different than I just can't feel it. I can't feel it. I can't feel what another is feeling
Shaun wilkins: But this is I like the ability to love it. Awesome. I love my family I love my nephews and nieces. Like, I love that a lot, you know I'm saying, like, oh, that's why I don't understand. Nothing's wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: So hold on, hold on, let's let's keep exploring this is fun.
Shaun wilkins: I just have a hard. I have a hard time loving other people. I don't know.
Shaun wilkins: Okay, let's take
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, let's take the people. Let's take a cousin nephew said, How old is the nephew, just pick one sec.
Shaun wilkins: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's how you might know if you really love them. This six year old comes to you and says, I don't like you, I don't want to play with you. What do you do
Walk away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but do you care what that little person is going through to care and want to understand
Shaun wilkins: Reem I do. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, right. But you don't use it against them and are indicative and blah, blah, blah, blah.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you. So for a child, right, you may have experienced so much sort of negative experience in your life that you can you can hold this sort of empathy for the innocence of a young person.
Gwenevere Abriel: But maybe for adults who you have a different maybe standard of expectation for them. So that's a good sign, Sean.
Gwenevere Abriel: The key is you don't want anything back from the six year old, you see it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you, if you purely only want what you can get that you're going to push that six year old away and you only want that six year old to give you affection, you only want it heading this way.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what you did for that six year old, my little scenario is you gave unconditionally said this little guy gets to be pissed off at me, he gets a lot like me sometimes. That's the way it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: I continue to care for him. He's having a bad day, little man just working it out you don't exploit it, you don't make him feel bad. He gets to do his own thing. It's not just what you get. You see it. So you do have it. So that's not true. Is it
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me tell you about these what the diagnostic manual does is it takes
Gwenevere Abriel: A whole range of human behavior on the whole range. I have an anti social peace. I have a piece of borderline. We all do. But here's what the diagnosis does is it's the extreme
Gwenevere Abriel: It captures the most extreme of all of these features that we share I share a little anxiety I share a little depression. Sometimes I might look look like I'm bipolar or whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: We all have a little tiny bit of it. It's the fact that it's so consistent. So that's, that's why when you're assessing someone you do it over time. And it's a continuous pattern pattern pattern pattern.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I hope this has opened your heart and your mind that you're more than just a label. I don't like labels.
Shaun wilkins: I tripped out when I read that Dean. I was like, wow, they're seeing them this
Shaun wilkins: Is good to me. Oh, OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now the upside of that label could be this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's where you're not. And here's where you are. You may say some pieces of this are
Gwenevere Abriel: My maladaptive so you know how earlier you were saying I'm avoiding people I don't really want to. I just, I don't trust them.
Shaun wilkins: I just want to be around always don't want no problems.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we humans have eyes appearing in the front.
Gwenevere Abriel: Row in front of our face because we're wired for connection, you may want to overcome your human nature to want to connect meaningfully
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's there. Nonetheless, and this sense of isolating you're missing out on the richness of what life has to offer. I know you're scared. And I'm not saying go make a best friend right now but down the line. I'll be continuing to say wire to love and connect. It's what gives us to
Shaun wilkins: Know what the. Why is the world so cold.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because we're scared and selfish. We get scared, we think about it. If you I don't know your stories. Yet, Sean. But if you grew up, let's say in a home where you didn't have to worry about scarcity, there was enough love nurturing and resources around you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you think you might have gone a different direction in your life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so, so, so used to you take you'll take a me now it's just you and I in here so we can only talk about each other. So you take me. Maybe I had a little more, maybe I had just enough
Shaun wilkins: We don't know. But there's nothing to be ashamed about that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, no.
Shaun wilkins: You haven't been proud of that your family. Do you come from a good family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, maybe. Well, you know, you'll never know my story because this is about you. But my point.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you don't know if I am very firm now won't know much about me, it's better, but
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's what's up.
Shaun wilkins: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's important because you keep you keep remembering that this treatment is for you. And we get to keep finding out all but I want to know, okay, well then let's let's talk about that need to know. But let's go back to just enough
Gwenevere Abriel: So I hope you've heard today.
Gwenevere Abriel: That labels are a point of departure, they can say, well, this captures a little bit of it. How can inform our work. And so what I heard today.
Gwenevere Abriel: She didn't like that one, that one song. I don't want to hear. I can't love I know love, I love, I love my cousin's their sweethearts, and it's not just about me, I would I would give and not want anything back
Gwenevere Abriel: And at the same time. Notice in group, it's harder, but guess what,
Gwenevere Abriel: Those people in group, just like you were six year olds to
Gwenevere Abriel: We have an innocence in us. We have a goodness
Shaun wilkins: And I know there's there's people out there. I think about that every there's people out there headway worst one I've ever had saliva. You know what I mean. So that's I think about that to me like I did, there's people out there to have a bad
Gwenevere Abriel: You are doing all right and you're okay today, but it may not feel like that, Sean, because those memories.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are being relived as if they were happening now and I can give you the science on another session of about the hippocampus about the amygdala.
Gwenevere Abriel: About the insula about the prefrontal cortex, we can get into that and you can learn the neuroscience behind it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which, of which you have no moral imperative. He didn't decide, well, I'll remember this, and it'll be horrific and I'll keep reliving it for the rest of my life. You didn't ask for that. This is
Shaun wilkins: The prefrontal
Gwenevere Abriel: We, my point is, your brain is going to do its thing.
Shaun wilkins: You don't make
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't do that. If you're wired to go do particular things that have been developed over, you know, thousands of years.
Shaun wilkins: Like this brain runs me like, like, like you can't, I don't see controlling it because it controls you it does what it wants.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. But watch how are you separate from your brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, by are going to get to know that right
Shaun wilkins: But, but you can't stop with your thoughts, though you can't
Gwenevere Abriel: Store. Oh, well, you're going to find out some interesting things. Guess what, you know what you're you know what your brains connected to
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body, and this is where it gets cookie and you'll have to giggle and you'll have to laugh and say my therapist is off her rocker. But if you end up feeling better. Isn't that the point if you're happier and feeling more at peace in this body and not stressed. Wouldn't that be nice.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah yeah and I want that for you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Today you worked very hard. You heard new information. You got to check out some some misinformation that you got in custody. Okay.
Shaun wilkins: And there's hoping that now. I was just reading a book that was a little pamphlet. It was like a little skinny book.
Shaun wilkins: And I grabbed it was on antisocial personality and then because everyone says they have that I guess then there's my roommate, we started reading it and he read that he's all hey this is you right here and
Gwenevere Abriel: He started laughing Why doesn't he diagnose it to himself said
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, we read. I said, well, let's see if you're right, because I had all my paperwork in there and we pulled it on its head.
Shaun wilkins: I was like, wow, is it said the board antisocial personality disorder that it's a borderline
Gwenevere Abriel: So for you when you're in group playing with this as a little piece of homework.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right after you get offended watch scared nervous pissed off. You're going to know it, probably with pissed off. Most people protect. I mean, it's so fast. You don't even think about getting pissed off, we self protect like
Gwenevere Abriel: Like Screw you, buddy. We it happens really fast. But underneath that catch yourself and you might be in one of those quiet moments where you got offended and insulted in threatened or
Gwenevere Abriel: A sense of being controlled that you probably register that when someone's trying to control you in there. Maybe it'll be me you'll you'll register it before you take action on it. Try this on his homework.
I wonder how one of yours feeling right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, that'll be brand new for you. But try it and see what happens. I know it's weird. You don't even have to say you're doing it, I kid you not, in the quiet of your own home over there in New Mexico.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's practicing the sense and skill of empathy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And see what happens when you go right, you're not in a fear response anymore when no longer are you focused in the neural network of threat and I'm being controlled and I've got to defend that position.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just try it, even for a split second. I'm going to go outside of myself. I'll come right back. Wonder how one of yours feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to read her tone of voice that she looked at me, she making fun of me. What's she doing wonder how she feels right now and then come back to you and see how you feel.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it, and see what
Gwenevere Abriel: If you journal it to come back to me and you say, Yeah, I did that a couple times and I'd be curious to see which dummy. All right. That's the homework and do it with family to eat. Nobody's going to know you're doing it.
Shaun wilkins: Yeah, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do with the guide the clerk, you can do with your PO, you can do it anywhere you want. Just go outside for a moment and imagine and wonder how they're feeling and then come right back. You want to stay out there long split second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Come right back to you. Okay, that's practicing that skill of empathy. All right. Um, are you still liking this time of day.
Shaun wilkins: Maybe, yeah. Yeah.
Shaun wilkins: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I will
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'll do is, why don't we tether this to all the way to next week to February 18 what I'll ask I'll invite I don't write your prescription. Well, I invite Dr.
Shaun wilkins: Solomon to
Gwenevere Abriel: write a script to get you all the way to our next appointment. Okay.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I'm really proud of you, what you talked about are difficult things for people to talk about. I'm really impressed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright man, I will
See you here.
Shaun wilkins: Does so it does so the doctor prescribing though my meds are all
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Shaun wilkins: Well, I can say good
Shaun wilkins: I will, I will.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will send a quick message and
Shaun wilkins: He do alright
Shaun wilkins: Have a good day.
Shaun wilkins: You too.
Bye bye.